## MAD Server Setup

Its basically just setting up a Database and fill in the MAD config.


### Windows
If you know better, you should skip this section and install on Linux.

MAD requires Windows 10 to work, because it has to run in the Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) to function.

Ok, so you decided that installing a VM is beyond you, and that getting a fancy raspberry Pi or VPS is not your cup of tea? But you want to still run MAD, on your Windows machine? Then do read on.

Install MariaDB server by googling that, downloading it and following the normal installer procedure. You'll now have a database server to use.

Under the Linux section of this document, read about how to setup your database for first access. Then come back up here.

If you haven't already, enable WSL by following [this](http://wsl-guide.org/en/latest/installation.html) guide.

Now, open up Powershell or Command prompt and type in `bash` to go into WSL/linux mode
Now we gotta make sure WSL is ready for MAD.

#### Prepare your system

Get pip3

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install python3-pip
```

We have to update Ubuntu to at least 18.04

Edit the file /etc/update-manager/release-upgrades:

```bash
sudo nano /etc/update-manager/release-upgrades
```

On the line that says "Prompt=.." change it to "Prompt=normal". Save with `CTRL+o` and exit with `CTRL+x`

Now, make sure LXD is removed:

```bash
sudo dpkg --force depends -P lxd; sudo dpkg --force depends -P lxd-client
```

Next, we need to make everything nice and updated

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
```

Now look for and update Ubuntu.

```bash
sudo do-release-upgrade
```

Simply follow the prompts and agree to anything it asks (pretty much anyhow) until it asks to reboot. Decline to restart, then exit WSL by typing `exit`. Do not close your terminal window.

Now, open up Services (win+r > type in: "services.msc" and hit enter). In the list of services, find LxssManager. Select it and hit Restart. This restarts Linux.

Back in the terminal window, type bash once more.

Now, let's install openCV

```bash
sudo apt-get install python3-opencv
```

#### Install the mysql client libraries:

```bash
sudo apt install default-libmysqlclient-dev
```

After all this is over, follow the Linux part about installing, scroll down to header MAD/PIP-Packages. Some parts might be repeated, don't worry about it.

Running MAD is now exactly the same as running it on Linux, except that your mariadb is running on Windows, and you're going a bit slower than if you would have just listened and installed on Linux directly in the first place.

PS: Linux inside Windows shares the network of your normal Windows machine, so there's no need to figure out ip addresses or anything special like that.

### Ubuntu/Debian

DISCLAIMER: This whole article assumes a fresh installed [Ubuntu 18.04 Server](https://www.ubuntu.com/download/server). There may be some difference to your setup. Please keep that in mind!

#### MySQL/MariaDB

You need a Database with full permissions. That DB can be located on a different Server, but needs to be accessible by your MAD server. It does not matter if you are using MariaDB or MySQL, but no other Database-system is supported.
>If you are plan to use [PMSF](https://github.com/whitewillem/PMSF) as a webfrontend: use at least MySQL 8 or MariaDB 10.2 or higher!

##### Install MariaDB on your Server:

```bash
apt update
apt install mariadb-server
mysql_secure_installation
```

>If you are not sure about the questions asked in `mysql_secure_installation`, just press enter for each question ;)

Log in to your Database and create an dedicated user for MAD (if you don't know how to, take a look at [this tutorial](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-create-a-new-user-and-grant-permissions-in-mysql)). 

Create a new database and grant permissions for your dedicated MAD database user:

```SQL
CREATE DATABASE DATABASENAMEHERE;
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASENAMEHERE.* TO 'DATABASEUSERHERE'@'localhost';
FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
```

MAD is using the RocketMap database schema, you can either install it using [OSM-Rocketmap](https://github.com/cecpk/OSM-Rocketmap) or, if you just want the database and not the complete frontend of RM, use the [databasesetup.py](../extras/scripts#databasesetup-databasesetup-py) script.

If you want to use OSM-Rocketmap, set it up and launch it for the first time. It will create the the tables automatically. Follow the guide from the [official Rocketmap documentation](https://rocketmap.readthedocs.io/en/develop/basic-install/index.html), but **make sure to clone the [OSM-Rocketmap](https://github.com/cecpk/OSM-Rocketmap) fork** instead of the normal one.

```bash
python3 runserver.py
```

> Rocketmap will only act as a webfrontend. See [webfrontends](/extras/webfrontends) for more informations.

Now you are ready to setup the MAD server itself.

#### Python

Since Ubuntu 18.04 does comes with a pre-installed python3.6 version but without a pip3 installation, run this command to install it:

```bash
apt install python3-pip
```

Make sure you have the right version installed, since even if python3.6 is installed, the `python3` command could still point to `python3.5` or below!
Check if `pip` and `python` is installed correctly by running:

* `python3 --version` - should return `3.6.x`
* `pip3 --version` - If it returns a version, it is working.

#### MAD/PIP Packages

Next Step is to clone this repository and install all the required pip packages:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Map-A-Droid/MAD.git
```

Change into in the directory of MAD and run:

```bash
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

MAD will also check the screen on your phone every now and then to check for errors. Make sure you have the required dependencies installed on your system: `apt-get install tesseract-ocr python3-opencv`

If you are encountering the error `OSError: mysql_config not found`, make sure you have the apt package `default-libmysqlclient-dev` installed.

### MAD Config

Copy the example config file and rename it to `config.ini`:

```bash
cp configs/config.ini.example configs/config.ini
```

>The article [Config File](/installation/2.config-file) has more detailed descriptions about the available options.

Populate the config with at least the database configuration. 

Every other config option is optional and not needed for the first start.

### Mappings

The next step is to configure the mappings.json (located in configs/mappings.json). This file is responsible to "map" your phones to walkers and walkers to areas. The easiest way to configure that is via the MAD webfrontend, MADmin. Start it with:

```bash
python3 configmode.py
```

MADmin will run on http://localhost:5000/. Go to `Mapping Editor` and start with adding an area. The type is depending on what do you want to scan. Every type and option of it has a description explaining itself.

Have a look at [Mappings](/installation/3.mappings) to understand how this works.

#### Running

If everything is set up correctly, you can start MAD:

```bash
python3 start.py
```
